<h3>New character? First time playing? Here are the things you need to know immediately.</h3>

1.) You have a newbie buff, with a countdown timer in your buff list at the bottom right. This gives you damage reduction, increased magic find
(increases dynamic item drop rate, like Unique Weapons and Set Armors), bonus experience gain, and makes wild creatures ignore you unless
provoked. Make use of it, because once it wears out, they will come after you, and you cannot get the buff back.
2.) You were given a number of starter items, make use of these for a much quicker start.
-The Knockout Club deals much more torpor than a regular club.
-The Gathering Tool works as a Metal Hatchet and Metal Pick. Middle mouse button to switch modes.
-The Gathering Sickle works the same as using your hands to harvest, but at 7x the rate.

<h4>The things you should focus on first:</h4>
1.) Using your starting tools to gather resources and level up.
2.) Finding weak dinos like vanilla dodos to kill for hide and experience.
3.) Establish a small temporary base, in a cave or a safe area, away from any danger.
4.) Craft an Omega Workbench and Imbue Workbench to prepare to progress.
5.) Collect Souls/Essence by killing weak base tier dinos or being near them when they die.
6.) Once you have enough souls/essence, craft a starter weapon. Ethereal Spear, Hades Torch, Multi-Tool recommended.
7.) If you havent already, craft some armor, even if its primitive Cloth.
8.) Imbue your armor in the Imbue Workbench using the highest tier essence you can afford.

<h4>Here are some things you should know while getting started.</h4>
1.) Dying Creatures will reward Souls/Essence in a small area. You do not need to make the kill.
2.) Imbue a full set of primitive gear with your first 5 Omega essence for a great stat boost.
3.) Resource dinos will periodically poop 5 of their designated resource and can be harvested for more.
4.) A Multi-Tool can harvest nearly everything, and bypasses Resource variant damage reduction.
5.) Spiritual Potions can be lifesavers early on for your player, doubling your movement speed and giving you infinite weight.
6.) A Net Gun is an infinitely reusable weapon that is far easier to use and aim than a Bola.
7.) Loot chests spawn in random locations. They are unlocked with essence and contain large stacks of souls, weapons, etc.
8.) Omega has a dynamic drop system similar to most looter games, meaning when you kill things, they may drop Unique/Set items, custom charms,
medallions, and more to greatly strengthen your player.

With a good starter weapon, some imbued armor, and a starter base, move onto the next section and begin taming.