Welcome, once again, to Ark Omega Ascended! Before we begin, stop. The game can be played as is, but for the ideal gameplay experience, there
are several (non-premium) mods that are run on official, and recommended for use with all installs.

<h4>Recommended mods include:</h4>

- a modded spyglass (Awesome, Super, Nanoh's, etc) for a quicklook indication of what kibble is needed to tame a dino, and how much of it.
The Omega teleporter and dino storage mods, as well as the egg collector — these are mods that were copied into discrete mods of their own from
the ASE version of Omega.
- An AOE drop collection mod such as Loot Grabber — Omega has quite a few drops that fall to the floor, and it's very nice to not have to run around
mashing E on everything in sight.
- A reusable item mod such as QOL+ or Nanoh's
- A pulling system such as QOL+, Pulllt! Or Automated Ark is very helpful.
- A death inventory keeping mod is recommended as well, as Ark Omega Ascended is not intended to be played quite like vanilla ARK, but more like
an ARPG such as Diablo or Path of Exile.
- Stack mods are convenient, but use caution — some of them change items such as meat, which can cause your Ark Omega Ascended dinos to not
eat the altered items properly.

Now that you've got your install squared away, let's look at getting started

When you first spawn in, you'll notice you have a buff on your character and some neat new tools in your inventory. The buff is the Ark Omega
newbie buff, which lasts for 10,000 seconds (slightly less than 3 hours), increases your Ark Omega rare item drop rate, gives you 90% damage
mitigation, and massively reduces your aggro radius, allowing you to dodge most enemy dinos. The gathering tool functions as both a metal axe
and metal pick — you can switch between the two by pressing the "Change Weapon Attachment" button. The knockout club delivers little damage
but heavy torpor and occasional stun, useful for knocking out your first tames. The gathering sickle gathers anything you could gather by hand (e.g.
berries, seeds, fiber) in a wide radius. It's recommended to equip all these tools to your hotbar first thing

And now you can get started in earnest! Your first goal is to acquire the material for an omega workbench, which is a level one engram, craftable in
your inventory. Ideally you'll also make an imbue workbench, with more of the same materials, for later. Then you can get to work getting the
materials for your egg collector (if using as recommended), and then you can get to work knocking out dodos. If you have the egg collector, just
females are fine — you can upload them and the egg collector will produce eggs according to your server egg laying rate setting. Otherwise you'll
want a male too, as dinos need to be mate-boosted to lay eggs. Next, you'll want to make your kibble machine, a level six engram which is crafted in
the omega workbench.

Now that you have your basic amenities built and perhaps have a little starter base to place them in, you need to begin killing things. You need
souls and essence to make kibble to tame creatures for progression, and those only come from killing creatures with tiers and variants. If you have
a reusable mod installed, this is the point where the reusable spear and bola come in very handy. Otherwise, use your favorite vanilla weapon; basic
tier creatures aren't much stronger than vanilla ark creatures statistics-wise, you can easily kill most early dinos with a primitive bow and stone
arrows.

Optional but recommended. Kill three basic-tier (no tier listed, just [for instance] "Teleporter Dodo" or "Warp Lystrosaurus") ethereal dinos, then
take their souls and essence plus a spear (reusable or otherwise) to your omega workbench, and make an ethereal spear. This will make killing
things go much faster. That's if you haven't gotten an Omega unique or legendary weapon such as "Burning Idol" or "Fate" to drop from a kill, of
course — if you get a weapon drop, use it! They all have special effects and will cause you to kill things much faster.

Also optional but recommended: once you have some essence higher than basic tier, reserve six and craft a set of primitive armor like hide or cloth,
as well as a primitive reflect shield in the omega workbench, then place them all plus your six essence in your imbue workbench, choose the type of
essence you put in the workbench from the list, and click "imbue all" to give this gear some random stats when you wear it. This is very helpful
early-game, before you've started getting gear drops.

Once you have at least one soul (such as a mythical soul) and five basic essence, as well as some raw meat, a dodo egg and some mejoberries, you
can look into crafting your first kibble. Be warned: getting your first dino in Omega is not actually a power boost like it is in vanilla; you're going to
do more damage than your early tames, and (while you have the newbie buff) you're also going to take less damage than they do. Ideally you'll just
tame one single-kibble female creature of each variant and tier up until elite, and keep them for egg production, rather than combat.

<h4>So, to summarize getting started.</h4>

- Gather until you can craft your Omega Workbench (and optionally your Imbue Workbench)
- Find a safe place to set up a starter base, ideally away from dino spawns
- Use your Omega Workbench to craft a Kibble Machine
- Use your Knockout Club and Gathering Sickle to knock out and acquire berries to tame some dodos, which are one of a select few dinos in Ark
Omega that don't always spawn with variants.
- Kill wild dinos for souls and essence while your tamed dodos lay eggs. (Crafting an Ethereal Spear and imbuing some armor will make this step
easier and faster!)
- Once you have an egg, a soul, and some basic essence, you're on your way to making your first basic kibble, which you can use to tame a basic
dino with a variant.

Once you've done all of this, you're officially on your way in the early game — congratulations!