You've survived your first challenges and can now tame basic dinos — congratulations! Here begins the first grind of Ark Omega: the kibble tree.

If you've played a progression overhaul before, you're likely familiar with the concept of taming creatures to use some feature of theirs to tame
stronger creatures. If you haven't, the way this works is relatively straightforward regardless: each successive tier's kibble is crafted with the
previous tier's eggs. To tame, for instance, a delta spiritual dino, you need a kibble made using a basic ethereal egg — since the spiritual variant is a
member of the ethereal group. This does mean you need to tame twelve different dinos per tier, though: one per variant group except lucky.

Variant groups are a concept unique to Ark Omega — there are thirteen variant groups, each with seven variants. Each group (except for lucky,
which is a special case) lays one kind of egg — a water dino and a fire dino will both lay elemental eggs, for instance. You can find out more,
including which variant is a member of which group, in the "Variants" tab, by selecting the button in the lower left corner of your guide.

Ark Omega also rewards going on foot: if you check the player rank tab in the guide, you'll see a list of the number of kills you need to make on foot
to go up in rank. This makes you take less damage, increasing your chances of survival when facing a high-tier creature while unmounted. Working
on player rank while hunting creatures for egg production is a very efficient use of your time — you just kill whatever you don't need to tame. This
has the bonus of dropping quest scrolls, which you can use to get quests,

As you traverse the world, you may notice little chests in the shape of Rockwell survivor notes. These are actually loot chests, unlockable using
essence, and they contain Omega items such as souls, upgrade materials, weapons, and blueprints. Open them when you can!

Another oddity you will almost certainly run across are the NPCs. There's one tribe per variant group, using its weapon and armor set — for
instance, the soul scream tribe that uses ethereal spears. They spawn with the small loot chests, so if you kill a tribe, be sure to search around
where they were to find the chest that spawned them. Otherwise, exercise great caution if you see them — they're deadly to tamed dinos and players
alike. The danger is worthwhile, since each tribe leader is guaranteed to drop a unique or legendary weapon and an imbued, cursed piece of the gear
set.

If you are very lucky, you may find a giant chest that asks for many types of essence. This is called a hoarder chest — and if you're either very lucky
or very unlucky, you may find that this chest has a guardian. At a low chance, when a hoarder chest spawns, so does a tameable boss — a dragon,
megapithecus, broodmother, manticore, dodorex or dodowyvern, with a tier and a variant. These are very dangerous and require either the unique or
legendary warp bow, metal knockout arrows with a compound bow, or a creature with the "Infinite" variant, to knock them unconscious. (This is
also the case for certain other high tier creatures, like giganotosauruses or rock elementals. This torpor mechanic is specifically called "Raid
torpor" )

As you progress through the world, there are some things it'll be very helpful to you to find. You'll want to kill cosmic dinos wherever you can for the
chance of them dropping a unique or legendary warp bow and its armor set, gravity, you'll want to accumulate a gear set and weapon to kill things
with (all of them are good for different things; experiment as you accumulate more) and eventually you'll want to acquire a strong, high-level dino to
get to elite tier as you prepare to enter the midgame.

You'll unlock the Omega beacon by killing a prime-tier or higher dino — on foot or mounted doesn't matter, but it has to be you directly controlling
whatever kills it in order to unlock the tekgram. Unlocking the beacon gives you access to summons — by placing as few as 10 or as many as 99
souls in the beacon's inventory, it lets you summon a tameable dino of the variant you sacrificed the souls of; eg, 99 mythical souls could give you
an elite siren carcharodontosaurus or an alpha fairy daeodon — more souls means both higher tier and larger or rarer dinos. This does include
tameable bosses so summon with care!

The main mechanic of the beacon, however, is that it is where you can summon bosses. And that is where midgame begins.

<h4>So, to summarize the early game:</h4>

- Wander the world, taming female dinos from basic-tier through to elite-tier so that you have one of each tier in each variant group (though it is
recommended to get one variant group to the point where you can tame elite tier dinos as soon as you can, so you can have a good strong mount
early)
- Kill everything you can that you don't want to tame for drops and progression through the player ranks.
- Try opening essence chests where you find them.
- Kill some NPCs if possible, for item drops and player rank progress.
- Get reliable access to some source of raid torpor if you'd like to eventually tame a species that requires raid torpor, such as a tameable boss or a
giganotosaurus.
- Unlock the Omega beacon by making a kill of prime tier or higher, either on foot or with your first elite-tier mount, and use souls to summon
potential tames using it.
- Start preparing to do our first beacon boss.