Welcome to the midgame! By now you've beach Bobbed your way to victory over all sorts of things in the world, you can craft every kibble, you've
got a strong mount and a preferred set of gear, and perhaps you've even imbued a shield at a tier above primitive, or rerolled some stats on your
armor and charm. And you've got your beacon unlocked and a few hundred souls prepared to do your very first bosses. You've also likely discovered
the dimensional network structures — the void vacuum, which means you can just drop your inventory and have it sorted automatically once you've
got the others set up, the unique totem to hold your unique and legendary items, the soul compressor for variant and paragon souls, the dimensional
storage you can set to collate certain items, the dumpster to cleanly delete things such as rockwell notes and stone tools, and the grinder that takes
up less space and gives back more resources when used to grind items put into it. All of these structures can actually be set to have specific things
sorted into them directly from the void vacuum — it's one of the best inventory management setups around, getting it set up to your preferences is a
good idea before you start doing bosses.

Item management aside, before you summon that first boss, make sure to check the calculator for HP and damage and consider these other things
you may need to be prepared for.

- Bosses hit pretty hard — does your tame have a good saddle, preferably imbued with at least elite essence? Ascendant is preferred, but anything
past journeyman with at least 80 armor is perfectly sufficient.
- Make sure you have a Reliquary structure crafted and placed, and one item-granted paragon level on your dino! If a dino with a paragon level from
a paragon soul dies, it will be cryopodded and placed in the Reliquary at the cost of its paragon soul item paragon levels, rather than simply
vanishing forever. This is, naturally, very good to have when you're fighting bosses, in case something goes drastically wrong.
- Beacon bosses can come out as any dino, so can you potentially chew through a stegosaurus' damage reduction? Do you have enough stamina
potions in case it's a meganeura? Do you have enough health potions to heal through bleed in case it's a thylacoleo? Do you have wake-up potions
in case it's a titanoboa?
- Are you using an absorbent dino to tank damage for you? If so, are you or a tribemate (or ally — allied absorbent dinos can protect others) riding
it, or do you have a potion dino to keep it topped up on stamina? An alpha-tier potion dino feeding alpha-tier potions should be sufficient for most
purposes, if you're using one at all. Otherwise, just make sure you have a few potions going at all times and it'll likely be fine.
- Are you in a place that is big enough to summon the boss, but small enough that a flyer won't get away to terrorize the countryside? Try to find
enclosed-ish world spaces like the ice trench on the island if you can, or go ahead and find a placeable arena mod for your map now. (Do not try
building a cage; bosses ignore structures and summoning destroys nearby structures into the bargain.)

Once you've got all your supplies and your tame in your chosen location, go ahead and put that hundred souls into the beacon. It is strongly
recommended to do your first bosses at basic tier, to get a feel for them and also to get the souls to make whatever tames you're using (tank,
healer, damage dealer, etc) apex-tier before going any further. The souls need to match to upgrade a dino, so a colossus boss soul for an elite
colossus tame and so on. Note that you can use a variant soul to control what kind of boss comes out, though this currently restricts them to basic
tier.

On upgrading uniques past elite tier: just feed them a boss soul of one of their variants to upgrade them. Either will do. It works the same way for
taking them to apex, ultimate, etc. The soul just has to match one of their variants. Note that a cursed saddles' variant may interfere with upgrading
a dino — make sure to remove any saddles that give a variant before force-feeding the boss/master/etc. soul!

This is the midgame gameplay loop: summon a beacon boss with a hundred souls, kill it and put the boss' soul in the beacon to summon a master,
kill the master and put the master's soul in the beacon to summon a corrupt master. Each successive class of boss will give stronger essence, each
soul grinds for more shards that can be used to curse non-set gear, and the higher-tier essence can be used to imbue gear more strongly.
Additionally, masters and corrupt masters will drop the mid-game sets and unique weapons such as Eye of the Storm and the Vengeance set that
goes with it. These sets are much stronger than the early-game ones such as Soul Scream, and will strengthen you enough to potentially do beacon
bosses and beyond on foot.

<h4>So, midgame in summary:</h4>

- Prepare your elite-tier tame and yourself with strong armor and saddles with good imbues, health potions, at least one paragon soul item, and a
crafted and placed Reliquary structure in case of tragedy.
- Make sure you're far from crafted structures, and in a place where there's space to fight but not so much that a flyer could escape the battle.
- Make sure you're comfortable too — the fights shouldn't be too long, but you should still go into them feeling good. If you're worried, ask some
friends to come along — Ark Omega's at its best when you're playing with a team.
- Use boss, master, and corrupt master souls to upgrade your tames' tiers to make them stronger.
- Get ready for the even stronger fights to come.