<span style="color:yellow;">ELEMENTAL</span>:
Elemental creatures are the most common creatures in Ark Omega. They have the power
of any of 6 elements: Fire, Earth, Water, Ice, Wind, Lightning. They are also split into 2
types, Elementals and Storm Elementals. Each Element has a weakness to another, and a
resistance to another. This works in a circular pattern, with every Element having 1
weakness and 1 resistance. Elemental creatures launch projectiles at enemies based
around their element, causing impact damage, AOE explosion damage, and often a ticking
damage that causes various status effects. Storm Elementals summon a swirling storm
of their element around them, doing more damage in a much greater area, making them
exponentially more dangerous.

<span style="color:yellow;">STANDARD ELEMENTALS</span>:
Standard elemental variants launch projectiles based around their element. They also all
get a crosshair when mounted to help aim them. These projectiles can travel a great
distance, do AOE damage on impact, and cause status effects. They are also able to use
this ability in turret mode, should that dino have access to it.
Pressing Prone(X) will launch an elemental ball from the head of the creature in the
direction of the crosshair. The ones effected by gravity drop will fire at a slight angle
upwards of 2 degrees so that creatures lower to the ground won't have their projectile
immediately explode.

<span style="color:yellow;">BURST ELEMENTALS</span>:
Storm Elementals are an enhanced version of standard elementals. They are more
powerful, harder to tame, with more dangerous abilities and a greatly increased likelihood
of inflicting status effects. Storm elementals creating swirling storms around themselves
that damage and debuff anything trapped with them, making their AOE capabilities far
beyond that of normal Elementals. Once you've established yourself a few standard
elemental tames for egg production, and have gathered up a few good tranqs, it is highly
recommended to step into Storm Elemental as battle mounts.
Pressing Prone(X) will create a swirling storm around the creature. These storms hit
enemies in a nearby AoE, piling on status effects. Because of this, they can be extremely
good for close range combat.